README.md, before:

# Gulp Remaster
## "The Last Gulp Plugin"
Not the last gulp plugin anyone will ever write, but the last one that absolutely must be written or _the plugin of last resort_. Remaster is a gulp plugin that allows you to edit Vinyl files directly in your gulp task as they come through the stream. Essentially it is a meta-plugin; if you can't find a plugin that does what you need, use Remaster to get a hold of the Vinyl file objects yourself and edit them.

You could also write a gulp plugin by wrapping Remaster.

## Use
Like other gulp plugins, Remaster is used by passing an invocation of Remaster to the `.pipe()` method of a readable Vinyl stream. By default, Remaster will behave much like [gulp-clone](https://github.com/mariocasciaro/gulp-clone) in that it will make a clone of all Vinyl files found in the stream and pass them on. A more useful invocation of Remaster will pass a file handler function to be run on each file and, optionally, a final handler function to be invoked after the last file is processed but before the stream is closed. There is also an options object syntax that allows setting both handler functions and a few other options.

If you wanted to build something like a simplistic [gulp-filter](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-filter), you could invoke Remaster something like this:

~~~javascript
var gulp = require('gulp'),
    remaster = require('gulp-remaster');

var filterPattern = /-test$/;

gulp.task('example', function(){
  return gulp.src("src/**/*.js")
    .pipe(remaster( function(file, done){
      if(file.isNull || filterPattern.test(file.stem)) {
        // remove file from the stream by calling the callback
        // without an error or a file.
        return done();
      }
      // pass the file on by passing it to the callback
      done(null, file);
    }))
    .pipe(gulp.dest("dest"));
})
~~~

Take a look at the [tests](test/api-test.js) for more examples.

## API
**`remaster( eachFileHandler[, finalHandler] )`** or **`remaster( options )`**

### `eachFileHandler( file[, encoding], callback )` or `eachFile`
Default: *internal passthrough file handler*

This is really just a thinly wrapped [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/) [transform](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/#api) function. For each file in the stream it receives either the `file` and a `callback([err[, file]])` or the `file`, it's `encoding`, and a `callback([err[, file]])`. Remaster will send an error to the `callback` if it encounters a `file` (object) that is not a [vinyl](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl) file (i.e. what gulp streams usually contain.) The `callback` takes an `err` - for reporting errors - and a `file`, which will be pushed to the stream. As with [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/), **this** is set to the stream, so you may call `this.push(file)` instead of passing the file to the callback.

### `finalHandler(callback)` or `final`
Default: *undefined*

This is a [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/) [flush](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/#api) function. It receives a single `callback([err])` which may be passed an error and should be called when you are done with the stream.

### `copy`
Default: true

If truthy, Remaster will [clone](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl#cloneopt) all Vinyl files passed through the stream before passing the clone to the eachFile handler. If an object, it will be passed as an options object to [clone](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl#cloneopt).

### `createError`
Default: *internal PluginError constructor*

This is a function that will call the gulp-util PluginError constructor used to generate errors inside Remaster. It is exposed here in case you want to use Remaster to simplify writing your own gulp plugin. *In that case only*, set this to your own function that calls gulp-util's PluginError constructor.

## Additional Reading
Using Remaster is essentially [Writing a Gulp Plugin](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/writing-a-plugin/README.md). You may find the section on [modifying file content](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/writing-a-plugin/README.md#modifying-file-content) particularly relevant. Keep in mind that Remaster is just as useful for modifying Vinyl metadata as it is the file contents themselves.

Commit message:

Relax checking for Vinyl files since some gulp process only pass vinyl-like files. Add option for strict checking.

README.md, after:

# Gulp Remaster
## "The Last Gulp Plugin"
Not the last gulp plugin anyone will ever write, but the last one that absolutely must be written or _the plugin of last resort_. Remaster is a gulp plugin that allows you to edit Vinyl files directly in your gulp task as they come through the stream. Essentially it is a meta-plugin; if you can't find a plugin that does what you need, use Remaster to get a hold of the Vinyl file objects yourself and edit them.

You could also write a gulp plugin by wrapping Remaster.

## Use
Like other gulp plugins, Remaster is used by passing an invocation of Remaster to the `.pipe()` method of a readable Vinyl stream. By default, Remaster will behave much like [gulp-clone](https://github.com/mariocasciaro/gulp-clone) in that it will make a clone of all Vinyl files found in the stream and pass them on. A more useful invocation of Remaster will pass a file handler function to be run on each file and, optionally, a final handler function to be invoked after the last file is processed but before the stream is closed. There is also an options object syntax that allows setting both handler functions and a few other options.

If you wanted to build something like a simplistic [gulp-filter](https://github.com/sindresorhus/gulp-filter), you could invoke Remaster something like this:

~~~javascript
var gulp = require('gulp'),
    remaster = require('gulp-remaster');

var filterPattern = /-test$/;

gulp.task('example', function(){
  return gulp.src("src/**/*.js")
    .pipe(remaster( function(file, done){
      if(file.isNull || filterPattern.test(file.stem)) {
        // remove file from the stream by calling the callback
        // without an error or a file.
        return done();
      }
      // pass the file on by passing it to the callback
      done(null, file);
    }))
    .pipe(gulp.dest("dest"));
})
~~~

Take a look at the [tests](test/api-test.js) for more examples.

## API
**`remaster( eachFileHandler[, finalHandler] )`** or **`remaster( options )`**

### `eachFileHandler( file[, encoding], callback )` or `eachFile`
Default: *internal passthrough file handler*

This is really just a thinly wrapped [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/) [transform](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/#api) function. For each file in the stream it receives either the `file` and a `callback([err[, file]])` or the `file`, it's `encoding`, and a `callback([err[, file]])`. Remaster will send an error to the `callback` if it encounters a `file` (object) that is not a [vinyl](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl) file (i.e. what gulp streams usually contain.) The `callback` takes an `err` - for reporting errors - and a `file`, which will be pushed to the stream. As with [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/), **this** is set to the stream, so you may call `this.push(file)` instead of passing the file to the callback.

### `finalHandler(callback)` or `final`
Default: *undefined*

This is a [through2](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/) [flush](https://github.com/rvagg/through2/#api) function. It receives a single `callback([err])` which may be passed an error and should be called when you are done with the stream.

### `copy`
Default: true

If truthy, Remaster will [clone](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl#cloneopt) all Vinyl files passed through the stream before passing the clone to the eachFile handler. If an object, it will be passed as an options object to [clone](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl#cloneopt).

### `strict`
Default: _undefined_

If truthy, Remaster will check whether every object coming through the stream is a Vinyl file using [Vinyl's own test function](https://github.com/gulpjs/vinyl#isvinyl). This option exists and is off by default in case your workflow passes through things that act like Vinyl files, but are not. You can turn it on if you want to be sure every file object is truely a Vinyl file.

### `createError`
Default: *internal PluginError constructor*

This is a function that will call the gulp-util PluginError constructor used to generate errors inside Remaster. It is exposed here in case you want to use Remaster to simplify writing your own gulp plugin. *In that case only*, set this to your own function that calls gulp-util's PluginError constructor.

## Additional Reading
Using Remaster is essentially [Writing a Gulp Plugin](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/writing-a-plugin/README.md). You may find the section on [modifying file content](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp/blob/master/docs/writing-a-plugin/README.md#modifying-file-content) particularly relevant. Keep in mind that Remaster is just as useful for modifying Vinyl metadata as it is the file contents themselves.
